Hi, welcome back.
In this video, we're looking at something
a bit more complicated,
understanding some slightly more complex HTML.
Let's create a new file in our project,
which I'm gonna call middle_html.
By the way, the files in the project,
which are available at the start of this section,
also contain this exact code,
and you can have a look at them.
The files may be named slightly differently,
and that should be fine, I hope.
Once again, we're gonna do the same
from bs4 import BeautifulSoup,
and then, I'm going to paste in some HTML.
In this case, our HTML is going to represent
an item that is being on sale in an online website.
So let's say we've managed to extract
the content from the website.
We're gonna look at how to do that,
and we've ended up with this HTML here,
and with this HTML,
we can find out the price of the item,
the star rating of the item, and so forth.
Let me show you exactly what this looks like on the website.
Then it'll make a bit more sense.
What we've got here is a demo website
for web scraping purposes,
and let's say we've managed to extract
some HTML content from it.
The content that I've extracted and put in the file
is the content that represents this object exactly,
this bit of HTML here.
It contains an image, a rating, a title,
which seems to be partly missing,
and the price, and then, whether it's in stock or not,
and finally, a button to add it to the basket.
So this HTML here
is what we've copied into our file,
and again, we're going to learn how to get the HTML
from the site very soon.
So let's go back into PyCharm and look at the HTML.
This is what we've got.
We've got a list item here.
That's because each element is actually in a list
in the website,
so an element is a list item of a big list
that is formatted and structured
in a bit of a different way than you'd normally see lists.
Then, it's got an article inside it.
You can see that the article
spans essentially the entire document,
and that is everything that we're interested in.
We've got a div who's has a class image_container,
and a div in HTML is normally just
something used to structure your content.
So it's a, think of it as a rectangle
and you can put things inside it,
and in here, what they've put is a link,
and that's the a, which is used for linking.
href is the URL or the address of the page
that the link goes to,
and inside the link, notice how the link starts here
and ends here in this closing tag,
you've got a image.
This is an image tag,
and this is the source of the image.
That is some JPG file.
It's got some alt property,
and it's got a class property.
The alt property is the alternate text
to show if the image cannot load for some reason.
So that is the title of the book, actually,
"A Light in the Attic."
Outside the div, we have a p tag, a paragraph tag,
which is used for the star rating.
This is a bit of a bizarre of doing a star rating,
but you can see that there is a class star-rating
and another class, which is separated by a space in HTML,
called Three with a capital T.
So this book has three stars,
but you can see inside it, there are five i tags,
which are used for icons.
So you can see that we must look at Three, this class here,
and not at the number of i tags
because the i tags are always five.
So we don't wanna look at that.
We wanna look at this Three.
Then outside the p, you have an h3,
which is the title of the book,
and you can see that the contents of the h3
are A Light in the dot dot dot.
Presumably, the book name is too long,
and it couldn't be displayed fully on the website.
However, the h3 contains inside it a link
to the book page presumably,
and also has a title property in it, a title attribute,
that is also the title of the book.
Then you've got a div which is the product price,
and inside it, you've got a p tag
which contains the class price_color,
and that contains the price of the book
with a pound symbol in front of it.
Also inside the div, you have this other p tag called,
with class instock and another class called availability.
Presumably, this class instock
will only be present in the document
when the thing is in stock,
and if it's out of stock, it'll say something else possibly.
We don't know that.
Inside that p tag, you've got an i class,
which is for an icon.
An i tag, sorry, that's for an icon,
and that has a class, icon-ok.
Then you've got a text, In stock.
Notice how this is weirdly formatted,
and finally, you've got a form that has a button in it.
Don't have to worry too much about that.
We're not gonna be looking into this.
Then you close the div that you started up here.
Finally, you close the article.
You close the list item, which is for the entire thing,
and then, you close your html.
So we sort of understand this code.
Maybe it's not the clearest thing in the world,
but we are going to try to extract some data from it.
So let's do just that.
The first thing is, of course, to create our soup.
So we're gonna do BeautifulSoup of ITEM_HTML
on the html.parser.
Then, we're going to start
by locating the item name, okay?
So the item name, the title of the book,
is, for example, in this a.
You remember, we've got an image there
that has an alt property,
which is the title of the book,
or more normally, we can get it off the actual title.
This is a heading three as you know,
and inside it, there's an a,
and the a has a property, title,
and that's the title of the book.
We cannot get the content out of the string property
because that has a three dots,
and it's missing part of the title,
so we must get it through here.
Okay, let's do that.
Let's create a function which is gonna be find_item_name,
and I'm going to introduce to you
a new way of locating things,
which I think is substantially easier than the default way.
So we're going to identify, from the start of our document,
what path of children will give us our element,
our a element.
So as you can see, our title tag,
our title property here, is in this a tag.
The a tag is in the h3 tag.
The h3 tag is in the article tag.
The article tag is in the li tag,
which is in the body tag, which is in the html tag.
So we're going to look at
any of these parents.
We can start at anywhere.
We can start in the li.
We can start at the article.
We can start at the h3,
and we're gonna say article is the first one, for example.
Then comes h3.
Then comes a,
and you can see that,
you can see that because this div here, for example,
is in the same level as this p tag.
The indentation is not very good,
but you can see that the div tag opens here
and it closes here,
which means the p tag is not inside it,
and the p tag closes here,
which means the h3 tag is not inside it.
So these are all on the same level,
which means they're all children of the article,
and the a is a children of an h3.
So what we've got essentially in our locator
is we've got an article.
Then separated by a space, we have our h3,
and then, we have an a,
and this sort of hierarchy allows BeautifulSoup
to find elements very easily, okay?
If you wanted to narrow down into a specific article,
for example, if you've had many articles,
notice how this article has a class of product_pod.
So you can actually say
article.product_pod,
and what this means now
is you're looking for the article
that has class product_pod,
and inside it, you're looking for an h3,
and inside it, you're looking for an a,
and this, once you do, for example,
item_name is soup.select_one
locator
is going to give you whatever it is that this results in.
This thing here is known as a CSS locator
and is really powerful.
It allows us to essentially do this sort of thing,
and it's the way that CSS, the CSS language,
also locates things.
We're not gonna look into CSS in this course,
or at least not yet,
but that's what it's called, essentially.
In its simplest terms, we can get the parent,
narrow it down by a class if we want,
and then go down to a child,
and then another child and so forth
until we have a hierarchy that is not repeated
throughout the site.
So if you only have one article with a product_pod,
one h3, and one a,
then that's gonna give you this hierarchy here
that you can search for.
Now that you've got the,
we're not gonna call it item_name.
We're gonna call it item_link.
Now you've got the item_link.
We can say item_name
is item_link.attrs title.
Again, this accesses the attributes of the link.
Our link is here,
and we're gonna access the title property
or attribute of that link,
and then, we can print the item_name out.
Let's run the function,
and remember to run your middle_html file,
and you can see that we get
A Light in the Attic printed out.
Now using these locators,
you can essentially locate anything,
so here's a small challenge for you.
Using a locator, you're gonna actually use the same one,
find out the link to this item's page.
So what you're looking for is this href here.
I'm sure you can do it.
I hope you managed.
All that we have to do is essentially access the same,
the same locator,
but instead of the title,
access another attribute which is the href attribute.
So we're going to copy.
Paste it in here, and we're gonna call it find_item_link,
and then, we're going to access the href attribute here.
Again, it's the same element,
article with product_pod class,
the h3 tag, which is the child,
and the a tag, which is a child of that,
and then, we're gonna select that,
and finally, we're gonna access the attribute of that,
and we're gonna print it out,
but of course, now that we have this item_link,
that's a pretty good name for our link.
We're gonna just do this,
so access the item,
eh, sorry, the tag,
and then access the href property of that,
and then, we can print that out.
Let's delete this
and run again,
and now, you can see that we get the title,
and then we get the link here as well.
This is a relative link,
so it doesn't give you the entire domain name,
and, you know, the website and everything.
That's okay.
I mean, we'll learn how to deal with that later on.
Okay, using this locator, now we can find other things.
So we can find, for example, the item price
and the item rating.
It's not so easy to do
because you're gonna have to do some other calculations.
For example, if you wanted to find the item's price,
which is here,
you're gonna look at article.
Then you're gonna potentially look at a p
that has price_color class,
and then, you're gonna look at its contents,
the string contents of it,
but this is not a number.
It is a string,
so you may want to strip out the pound sign
and use a regular expression to extract this group.
I think this would be a great exercise
for us to review what we've learned in the last section
and give it a go.
Try to extract 51.77 as a float
using BeautifulSoup and the regular expressions.
Give it a go.
Pause the video and go for it.
I hope you managed.
It's a bit of a more complicated way to go about things,
but what we're going to do is, first of all, locate this.
First of all, get this string out with BeautifulSoup.
So I'm going to create a new function,
find_item_price,
and then, I'm going to define my locator,
which is gonna be article.product_pod,
and inside it, we've got p.price_color.
So here, we're accessing the article that has this class
and the p that has this class,
and that's gonna give us a pretty good understanding,
or it's gonna give BeautifulSoup a good understanding
of how to get there.
Then, we're going to access the item_price,
which is going to be soup.select_one locator .string.
All that's happening here is we're finding the tag,
and we're accessing the string content of it.
So this is gonna give us pound sign 51.77
or however much it was.
Yeah, 51.77.
So this is giving us that.
Now, we have this.
We have to use a regular expression in order to extract it.
So go into the top of the file.
I'm going to import the RE module,
import re.
Notice how I am doing this import re
at the top of the file
and from blah blah blah import something else
directly underneath it.
This is Python sort of convention
to do these type of imports at the top,
these type of imports just directly below them.
Now that we've got the re module,
we can define our pattern,
the regular expression we're looking for,
and this is going to be, first of all, the pound symbol,
51.77.
This is going to match,
and we want to extract 51.77 as a number.
So we're gonna put it inside these brackets
so that we can extract it using the group.
Then of course, we're not interested in this 51.77 only,
but if the price were to change,
we'd wanna get the changed price,
so instead of putting 51.77 in here,
we're gonna have to use something that will allow us
to get a range of numbers,
and the way we're gonna do that
is by doing zero to nine inside the square brackets.
This is a range of numbers from zero to nine.
Then we're gonna do plus,
so that's gonna give us one or more of these numbers,
and then, we're going to make sure to put a backslash
in front of the dot
so that it matches the dot and not anything,
which is what it means in regular expressions,
and for the 77, we're going to do the same,
zero to nine plus.
Then we're going to search and get our groups.
So our groups or our matcher
is going to be re.search pattern and item_price,
and again, this is going to give us two groups,
group zero, which is going to be
the entire thing that matches,
and then, matcher.group one,
which is going to be the first group
that is between the brackets.
So that's gonna be 51.77 without the pound symbol.
Okay, this is gonna be 51.77.
This is gonna be 51.77 without the symbol.
So we can indeed turn it into a float.
Okay, we're printing out the float of this matcher,
and so, let's run that and see what happens,
and as you can see, we get 51.77 with the pound sign
and 51.77 without the pound sign, okay?
Let's say we wanted to print it out but
at a 20% discount.
We could multiply by 0.8,
and this should work because it's a number now.
It's not a string,
and as you can see, it works.
We get 41.416.
So that's pretty awesome.
We have now learned how to extract a number
using BeautifulSoup and regular expressions from a website.
So for example, the things we can do now,
once we learn, of course, how to interact with the website,
which we will do shortly in this section,
you can, for example, track item prices online.
For example, let's say you played badminton
and you wanna track the price of badminton rackets
over time in order to find out when you should buy one.
You could do this with a simple Python app
that essentially downloads the site
and looks through it using something like this.
Finally, let's find out the item's rating.
The rating is gonna be a bit more complicated
because we have to look at exactly one attribute,
which is this Three here,
but of course, this is in a p tag,
and there are many p tags around,
so let's find this out,
and let's go down here.
We're gonna do def find_item_rating.
The locator is going to be article.product_pod,
product_pod,
and inside it, p.star-rating.
That is because the paragraph we're looking for
is the one that has this class, star-rating.
In CSS, classes are always separated by spaces,
so what this p tag has is two classes,
star-rating and Three.
So we're looking for the paragraph
that has the star-rating class,
and it also has other classes,
but we're not limited to only this one.
So this locator will find that paragraph.
It has a p.star-rating,
and if we wanted to also find it with the Three class,
we could do this,
but we don't want to find it with two classes
just in case the rating changes,
so we're gonna stick it with this only.
Okay, the star_rating_element,
the tag or the star_rating_tag
is going to be soup.select_one, here, locator.
So this gives us the tag, okay?
Now, we can get the class tags out of it.
So the classes are
star_rating_tag.attrs class,
and this is now, when BeautifulSoup extract this,
is going to be two classes,
these two.
This is what it's gonna give us,
so we need to find out what this is,
but remember, it could be the first one.
It doesn't necessarily have to be the second class,
so this list could be like this.
We cannot just select the second element.
That would be too easy.
So what we're going to do is
we're going to recreate this classes list
but without this star-rating.
I'm sure you can do that using either a list comprehension
or the filter function.
Give it a go.
I'm sure you managed.
There are two ways that we could do this.
We could say rating_classes is
r for r in classes
if r is not equal to star-rating.
This would be one way,
or we could do rating_classes equals filter
of lambda x for x is not
star-rating in classes.
Okay, either of these would be perfectly suitable.
The code that you'll see online has this.
So we're gonna leave the list comprehension in the video.
If you wanna look out at the other way of doing things,
check out the video which is linked
at the start of the lecture
and also at the start of this section
and also in the lecture.
Now this list here should contain a single element,
this Three.
So we can just say print rating_classes zero.
We're assuming that the paragraph
is not going to have any other tags,
say for example, a hello class.
Would be weird, but you know, it can happen,
and this method, if that's the case, is not ideal for that,
but through looking at a few of the items on the website,
it seems that there are only ever two classes,
star-rating and the rating.
So that could be Four or Five or Three and so on.
Finally, let's call this one find_item_rating and run this,
and there you have it down here.
We've got the number of stars in this book.
So we could use this now to search the books,
so we could, for example, download the entire page
and find which books have five stars
and are under 20 pounds,
and that would be something that we could do,
but before we do that, of course,
we have to learn to extract the content from the site
by downloading the website.
So we're going to do that very soon,
but first, I just wanted to tell you a little bit
about how to improve on this structure.
You're not always going to,
or you're not gonna want to have,
you know, these top-level functions
for each thing you're finding.
You're not gonna want your functions
to be printing things out necessarily,
so we're gonna make things a bit better.
We're going to start separating things into classes
and things like that just so you have a better idea
of how I'd recommend that you go about parsing the HTML
and sort of dealing with it nicely in your programmes.
So with that said, I'll see you on the next video.